

Teacher: Dr. Barry
Email: katie.barry@oxnardunion.org

Grading policies: This course uses a traditional grading system.
Make-up Work Policy:  All late work is accepted until the end of the trimester, the week before finals. 
Course Description: This STEM course makes a contribution to the curriculum by providing opportunities for students and teachers to link content together and apply it to solve problems. Students will learn about engineering through the following projects: Mechanical Engineering, Engineering Design (3D printing and prototyping), Electrical Engineering, and Civil Engineering. The goal of this course is to foster an environment for problem solving and to create global citizens that make informed decisions. 

Trimester 1 Topics:				
Safety						
Measurement
Project based learning- Engineering
CAD
Woodworking
Electronics and soldering
Culminating project: 3D printing

Trimester 2 Topics:
Balsa Bridge
Electricity and soldering
3D printing
Woodworking
Culminating project: Solar car





Classroom Expectations:  Rancho Campana students have PRIDE In the classroom! RCHS students will exhibit these positive behaviors in the classroom:
Clean up and put tools/supplies away
Follow directions the first time given.
Stay on task during all work times.
Follow shop safety expectations at all times
Cell Phones: You will be given a number to put your cell phone in. This is how I take attendance. If you do not want your cell phone in the box, then you can put a “no cell phone” slip in your number slot. If you are caught with a cell phone during class, it is given to Mr. Martin for you to pick up after school.
Additional school-wide policies may be found here in the student handbook.

Learning Management System and Student Information Systems:
Students can access their course curriculum through Canvas
MyVUE: Students and parents can access grades, attendance, course history, schedule, and contact information for teachers. 
The most up to date grade- information can be found in Canvas, MyVUE is not always updated



Academic Support: With a challenging curriculum, academic support might be necessary. Academic support will be provided in the following manner:
 I am always available to help, just ask!
If you don’t understand the material, please seek help.
Dr. Barry is available before school, during tutorial, and lunch for help. 







Academic Integrity Policy
A student is in violation of our school policy on Academic Honesty when (s)he participates in any of the following activities, including but not limited to:
Copying other students’ answers on a quiz, test, or homework assignment. Or supplying the answers to another student. Note: All assignments are considered individual assignments unless specifically stated otherwise by the teacher.
 Securing a copy of a class quiz or test beforehand or taking a quiz or test to pass on to other students.
Getting answers or questions from students who already took the quiz or test.
Giving answers or questions to students who will take the quiz or test.
Copying homework or any class assignments from any source (including the Internet and AI) or allowing another student to copy one’s own work.
Presenting other’s work as one’s own research or work.
Having unauthorized test aids and not following test or assignment protocol. Note: Any use of a cell phone whatsoever during a test may be considered a violation of the academic honesty policy.
When taking a quiz online using another tab to look up answers.
When absent and making-up a Science Lab, if permitted by the teacher, students can copy the data portion of the lab. Students must do the analysis of the data on their own. 





Academy Certification
Engineering Courses- 3 years required, passed with a C or better
Introduction to Engineering: Freshmen year
Principles of Engineering: Sophomore year
Honors Engineering: Completed Junior or Senior year
Worksite Tours- 3 required
Students check email/listen to announcements to sign up
School-wide Work Based Learning Events
 Career Day: Freshmen year
 Speed Interviewing: Sophomore year
 Junior Internship Bootcamp: Junior year
 Internship: Options listed below
Second Trimester of these 3rd year Engineering Courses: Honors Engineering
Apply for an RCMakes paid or unpaid internship
Navy Pre-Engineering Program
CAF Airport Program
Find an internship on your own, contact Dr. Barry so she can contact the supervisor of the internship
All students who have completed the Academy requirements in addition to the Oxnard Union High School graduation requirements will be honored with the Engineering cord at graduation and a Certificate of Achievement. 
